---
title: "2021-10-05_minutes"
author: "Joseph Rickert"
date: "10/5/2021"
output: html_document
---
Minutes taken by Hadley Wickham

The meeting was recorded: [video](https://rstudio.zoom.us/rec/share/smbRfQx85FwCx81aPl9gud69jJ6yChbxxNS3wXUD4m_vtOQpL5pJLw5G8X1Rdoz7.xdPgxZThcvMBM-64) Passcode: T82EG&.a

### R Repository WG minutes 2021-10-05
[Minutes from last time:](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/tree/main/minutes (these minutes will also go there after the meeting))

Attendees: Joe Rickert (Chair); Hadley Wickham, Maëlle Salmon, Lluís Revilla, James Black, Will Landau, Jeroen Ooms, Gabor Csari, Michael Lawrence, Ellis Hughes, Brian Warner, Paul Schuette, Andy Nicholls.

After last meeting, decided to use github issues to track issues — two issues filed:  

1. https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/issues/1 
2. https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/issues/3

### Connections to CRAN
CRAN is concerned that people talk “about” them, rather than “with” them. How can we get the dialog going more directly? 
**ML**: CRAN are planning to create a simple website (to establish an online presence), and are planning on hiring developer liaison/advocate (could be a direct contact with CRAN). Have reached out to an individual who is interested in exploring the opportunity, and are willing, but CRAN hasn’t let them know yet. This person would be a core member of CRAN. Would expect that this person would be an active member of this working group and actively contributing to CRAN.

What is the governance model of CRAN? **ML**: Uwe Ligges is the official “head”, particularly as it relates to student employees; but is a peer with Brian Ripley and Kurt Hornik. 

What’s the connection between CRAN and R-Foundation? **ML**: The CRAN team is independent of the R foundation, although ⅔ CRAN members are also members of the foundation. There’s no formal relationship or charter or charge.

Currently CRAN is so overwhelmed with emails that they can’t try out new ideas. Ball is currently in their court.

### Modern repository
What should a modern repository look like? Both in terms of technology and process. Seems worthwhile to work on that in order to present concrete ideas for discussion with CRAN. CRAN is definitely interested in collaborating (esp with R-hub), but have not yet communicated with Gabor.

Would be hard to build trust with CRAN if we start working on something without them. ML will email CRAN directly today.

Can we work in parallel exploring a special purpose repository? So we get some experience on a repository while we build lines of communication to CRAN?

### R-Universe project (ROpenSci)
**Jeroen Ooms**: ROpenSci is working in two related projects at opposite ends of the spectrum:

* Package onboarding process including peer-review and transfer to common GitHub organisation. Very rigorous but high touch, and not very scalable. Small curated set of package that ROpenSci has the skills to review (mostly in the sciences).
* https://r-universe.dev/ is an open platform for creating CRAN-like repositories. Open infrastructure where anyone can easily make a collection of packages. How far can we take a fully automated build system based on Github actions that requires no human intervention.

At last DSC proposed that ROpenSci could create its own package repository (like BioC), and there didn’t seem to be major objections from R core.

Biggest challenge for creating a new repository is governance: what’s the policy around on-boarding and off-boarding? First step, is really some endorsement from R-core/CRAN that they’re ok with introducing a new top-level repository. Requires some namespacing agreement (so don’t end up with different packages with the same name in different repositories).

ROpenSci plans to continue working on the R-Universe project; add more features, make it look better, etc. Build up over time so can point to long-term.

**ML**: in general, CRAN supportive of new repositories because (in part) it reduces the number of packages that they need to deal with. So overall this is a feasible goal.

**GC**: in principle, what would the next step be? **ML**: would need to resolve initial namespace clashes, but should be straightforward. Start by emailing a request to email R-core mailing list. Worth emailing CRAN about.

Namespacing does require a little work — because R CMD check need to ensure that there isn’t a package on (eg) ROpenSci. 

Cross-repository dependencies is another potential issue (i.e. can a CRAN package import or suggest an ROpenSci package)?

**JO**: About half of ROpenSci packages are currently on CRAN, so would need a little thinking about how to resolve that problem.

### Pharma repository needs

**JB**: two challenges: worrying to share on CRAN because can’t do last minute changes; and maintaining a validated view of CRAN (subset of packages + some application of patches).

**ML**: Is there also a worry about CRAN dependencies changing? **JB**: yes, but is less of a worry because of internal pinning. **ML**: could you just send a container? **PL**: No, because FDA IT is a bit outdated, and hard to get containers to run.

**PL**: system currently very decentralised, so each reviewer does their own thing; and install as needed for submissions. Having a single repository would be a big win. Reviewers can be working on up to 4 submissions simultaneously. Tough to run multiple containers on standard issue business laptop.

**ML**: submissions are high risk so really want to get the right versions. **PS**: R-Submissions WG recommends some package management system, so at a minimum have a list of packages and dependencies. And one approach is include packages as part of submission. Informal recommendation is to use packages from CRAN or similarly reputable source; better to avoid packages hosted on GitHub.

**ML**: would be really nice to have independent infrastructure. What could bioconductor and r-universe share? 

### HW: summary of discussions:

* Building better lines of communication with CRAN
* Providing an alternative repository (based on ROpenSci tools? from ROpenSci? In collaboration with ROpenSci?)
* Validated repository, which you’d prefer to use packages from over CRAN.

**ML** : do these discussions address the concerns of CRAN petitioners? WL: yes, and can’t speak from Miles, but overall is very encouraging. Developer advocate in particular is exciting. Many concerns can only be addressed by CRAN (particularly policies around on-boarding and off-boarding).

**WL**: would putative ROpenSci repo be general purpose or domain specific? When would you suggest people submit to CRAN vs ROpenSci? **ML**: what is the typical trajectory of an ROpenSci package? **JO**: scope is currently restricted by knowledge of science reviewers; but considering broadening to provide more general purpose. Criteria are currently quite strict but open to exploring how to make more generally usable. Packages encouraged to head towards CRAN (i.e. ideally CRAN quality), but things get removed from CRAN or are just not ready, or maintainers don’t have time to keep up with CRAN changes.

**JR**: Closing summary to start thinking on recommendation to CRAN and when to publish a package to CRAN, rOpenSci or a repository and make progressions between the meetings. 

