# Minutes 2021-11-02

Minutes taken by Hadley Wickham

## Attendees

Joe Rickert, Hadley Wickham, Michael Lawrence, Gabor Csardi, Jereon Ooms

## Agenda

From last time: biggest question about CRAN is how to build trust.
Unfortunately CRAN currently doesn't have time/energy to engage.
They continue to work towards hiring a hiring developer advocate who would have more time (Have written up minutes of discussion about hiring CRAN developer advocate and sent to R-foundation, but haven't had any response yet)

Given that, can we identity an easy win that we could start to work on?
One place to start would be move more towards reproducibility so r-hub can mimic CRAN more closely.

-   Could we get a list of environment variables that CRAN uses?
    Ideally, isn't just a one time thing. 

-   How are fedora/solaris system dependencies installed?

-   Currently available information: <https://cran.r-project.org/web/checks/check_flavors.html> (click 'details' column) - identify what information is missing

Actions:

-   Prepare email for CRAN (see below).

-   Update README to clarify mission.

## Next steps

-   Please respond with any comments about draft email below by Nov 9.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Proposed email to CRAN

Dear CRAN maintainers,

We'd like to introduce ourselves as the R Consortium Working Group on Repositories, <https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg>.
As the working group is young, we're currently looking for small projects that might still offer meaningful quality of life improvements for R package developers and the CRAN maintainers.
One idea that we came up with is improving the coherence of the R-hub and CRAN check results.
This would make R-Hub more useful to R package developers and we hope would make life easier for CRAN maintainers by giving R developers an easy way to check packages in a CRAN-like environment without human intervention. 

One small place to start would be aligning the values of the \_R_CHECK\_ environment variables between CRAN, R-Hub, RStudio's revdep tool chain, and the r-lib GHA actions.
There are some helpful details available at <https://cran.r-project.org/web/checks/check_flavors.html>, but even for the few platforms that list environment variables, it's easy for documentation and usage to drift out of sync.
We brainstormed two possible ways to improve the situation, but if you have a better approach we'd be happy to implement it.

One approach would be to store the environment variables in a consistent location in svn, and then we could regularly scrape these values and use them in R-Hub (or maybe they're already in files, and we just need to know where).
An alternative that doesn't require any changes on the CRAN side would be for us to create a package that records the \_R_CHECK\_ vars during check and publishes to a known location.
We could obviously do this now, but it would be best if we could get an explicit ok to exfiltrate data for this purpose.

We hope this idea sounds interesting and we look forward to working with you to make developing and maintaining the R package ecosystem easier for everyone.
You'd also be very welcome to attend any of our meetings, just email Joseph Rickert for the details.

R Consortium Working Group on Repositories

Chaired by Joseph Rickert

\
\
