# **R Consortium R Repositories Working Group: 2021-09-07**

## Attendees

Joseph Rickett, Hadley Wickham, Miles McBain, Lluís Revilla, Will Landau, Gabor Csardi, James Black, Ellis Hughes, Michael Lawrence, Brian Warner, Andy Nicholls.

## Agenda

This is the first meeting of the R Consortium's R Repositories working group which is being convened to explore best practices associated with managing R package repositories.
The charter of the group will be to:

1.  Explore the possibilities that the R Community could establish norms for package submissions that could help CRAN and Bioconductor maintainers cope with the expected growth in R packages over the next several years.

2.  Investigate the possibility of setting standards to distinguish different levels of quality for R packages

3.  Determine the feasibility of establishing additional, special purpose package repositories for example:

-   A repository running the risk metric analytics developed by the R Validation Hub (<https://www.pharmar.org/)>

-   Repositories with tests and metrics suggested by the FDA that would facilitate clinical trial submissions through the FDA's Electronic Submissions Gateway

-   Experimental repositories for testing repository designs that would implement a layered approach to checks, perhaps separating fully automated checks from higher layer custom services.

The meeting was recorded. Here is the  [zoom link](https://rstudio.zoom.us/rec/share/jaYHzJ01nJi1NChvkuGXuk5rFoOowQh48_a9722dsMFhzbtUzsR5-9P4RLvbysUW.yKOnVx021EqDe2-6). Passcode =3&xhAV1


## Introductions

## Cultural issues

Draft petition from group of community members: <https://github.com/cranchange/cran_change.org> (not launched; decided better to take collaborative route).
Seeking greater transparency and greater engagement; both know what's happening and have the ability to give feedback and make change.
And help the community to help CRAN.

What are the long-term options for repositories in R?
Have we outgrown a single central repository?
How do we even frame this problem and start this discussion?

ML: Major advantage of single central repo (CRAN) is providing a cohort of packages that are guaranteed to work together.
But also important for communities like BioConductor to be able to define their own standards.
Relationship between CRAN and BioCondcutor is complicated because the frequency of changes is different (CRAN very rapid and per package; BioConductor has regular release process for all packages)

ML: Cultural change from 90s era shareware with more open/modern approach exemplified by LF/Github etc.
RF is in discussions with CRAN and CRAN understands that there is a cultural divide.
Considering making a website about CRAN (the people, not just the project), and are open to working with a developer advocate (i.e. hiring a new member of team) to be embedded within the team but who's efforts would be outwardly focussed.
Could be funded by the R Foundation; part-time.

WL: is it possible to disentangle the check system from repository management? 

## How can we engage with CRAN?

Currently RC -> RF -> CRAN (via Michael Lawrence).
Would be very useful to plan towards direct engagement.
If CRAN advocate was hired, would be a natural person to engage with this committee.

ML: CRAN does want to change; they have built their careers on this, and really do care.
But are so overwhelmed by existing work that they find it very difficult to think long term.
"Why do people talk about CRAN instead of to CRAN?" .
Also interested in establishing a CoC for both CRAN maintainers and CRAN contributors.

JR: How could we help?
Maybe we could help write CoCs?
Could we help develop a website?
Could we fund someone through the ISC?

WL: Would CRAN team be interested in help moving to Git/Github?
Or do they prefer svn?

ML: lot of R core prefer simplicity of svn, while others prefer git + community around it. 

JR: do they want help with the website?

## Can we separate repository from checks?

Multiple parts:

-   Can r-hub run checks exactly the same way as CRAN?

-   Can we help CRAN take advantage of cloud compute?

-   Can we help write individual checks in R CMD check?

-   Can we make the human checks more explicit?

GC: technically very possible to provide checks for them in the cloud.
(Have offered in the past to offer cloud solaris machine).
But cultural differences are hard: each CRAN maintainer works with build machines in different ways.
R-hub strives to run checks exactly the same way as CRAN, but it's hard to know exactly what CRAN is doing.
Occasionally it's very hard to replicate what CRAN is doing because they have unique setups for extra-checks.

JR: in the very long term, worries about having individual folks maintaining key infrastructure.

## Additional repositories

e.g. staging area for FDA.

JB: Interested in two different alternatives:

-   CRAN with less stringency/more control.
    e.g. publishing packages for papers (?)

-   CRAN with more control --- risk assessment + potential mitigation.
    Currently each pharma company doing individually; could we pool work?

## Who else should be involved/invited?

-   Someone from FDA

-   Someone from CRAN.
    How do we work towards?

-   Mark Padgham + Jeroen Ooms from ROpenSci

## Next steps

Figure out a few concrete actions that we could make progress on. 

Start by brainstorming.
File issues at <https://github.com/RConsortium/wg-r-repositories>.


Aim to meet again in a month.
Currently scheduled for Oct 5.
