### R Repository WG minutes 2022-12-05

Minutes by Joseph Rickert

### Attendees

* Gabe Becker
* Tyler Finethy
* Michael Lawrence
* Martin Mächler
* Joseph Rickert
* Paul Schuettte

### CRAN colaboration 

The email sent to CRAN with a doodle poll to try to set up a meeting before the end of the year provoked an unhelpful response from BDR. Nevertheless, the group is optimistic that collaboration can continue through email. Much of the meeting was devoted to a discussion of how the working group could proactively jumpstart a new round of discussions by implementing a proof of concept that makes use of the CRAN scripts for performing checks on the various CRAN severs. Note that because CRAN script change frequently for a variety of reasons including implementing new tests and conducting experiments, the proof of concept should be consistent with a process of continuous integration that accounts for the changing CRAN scripts.

The WG settled on a three part plan:

1. Develop a script and make file that would integrate and run the CRAN scripts. Package developers could run this script before submitting a package to CRAN an hopefull catch potential problems.

2. Implement this script as a GitHub action to automate the process.

3. Implement the Github action on R-Hub, or another property owned by the R Community.

The WG envisioned that the code resulting from this effort could either be run as a continuous integration process on a resource like R-Hub, or executed by package devlopers submitting their package to CRAN.

The WG also discussed the costs associated with GitHub actions and noted that money would have to be found to implement this activity on an ongoing basis should it be successful.

**Action Item:** Tyler will write up a paragragh describing the what we want to achieve in part 1 and submit it as an issue on the WG's repository.

The group will promote this description as a call to action from the community.

### The Validation Hub Pharma Repository

JBR described the new effort being undertaken by the R Validation Hub working group to stand up a CRAN like repository that would be suitable for pharmaceutical companies to use for submissions to the FDA. The WG discussed the various technical social issues that would have to be addressed to make this effort successgul. Technical issues include synchronizing the name space between the new repository and CRAN. There was some discussion of whether the Repositories WG should initiate a effort to study network protocols for this kind of synchronization.

Social issues include developing transparent and fair policies for administering the respository and for making decisions as to what packages it should contain.

Paul noted that although the FDA has never explicitly said that R packages used in submission have to come from CRAN, CRAN is viewed by the FDA as the gold standard.

The next meeting of the WG will be moved from Monday, January 2, 2023 to Monday, **January 9, 2023** at 8AM PST to avoid conflicting with the end of year holidays.
