## R Consortium Repositories WG  Minutes 2022-06-06

Minutes by Hadley Wickham

### Attendees:
* Keavan Anderson
* Gabriel Becker
* Bob Engle
* Marly Gotti
* Sean Healey
* Sumesh Kalappurakal
* Doug Kelkhoff
* Will Landau
* Michael Lawrence
* Lluís Revilla
* Jeroen Ooms
* Joseph Rickert
* Maëlle Salmon
* Hadley Wickham

The meeting was recorded and the [video](https://rstudio.zoom.us/rec/share/ilrd7AEVo9EqWcqij5f8lASPGsb1H2Uo54bcdYlVSuexfG_hUxjr14YWPRMwva94.sRe71_eQpfdYAKBI) is available with the passcode:  eadF^3b0

## Agenda

### R-Universe (Jeroen Ooms)

* https://r-universe.dev/: Platform for running CRAN like package repositories, based on infrastructure developed for ROpenSci.
* Can easily browse packages produced by group, e.g. https://kwb-r.r-universe.dev/ui#builds. See build results, contributors, etc. Individual package (e.g. https://tidymodels.r-universe.dev/ui#package:parsnip)  results shows info about package, github stars, articles/vignettes, information about contributors, weekly changes, tags, releases etc. Trying to answer the question of “can you trust this package?”
* To publish your package on r-universe package only needs to open source and be available on public git. All you need to create a repository is a registry file: https://github.com/ropensci/roregistry/blob/gh-pages/packages.json, which defines list of packages and where to find them. Every hour, build system checks for changes in registry file or packages listed in registry, and will rebuild them. 
* By default, automatically build and distribute latest version of each package. What if you want to create fixed repo using specific versions? Can instead specify tag, branch, commit hash instead of master/main branch. Then you could (e.g.) take pull requests to update to new versions.
* R-universe currently doesn’t archive old versions. Working on snapshot tool that captures all build packages at a point in time and deploy on static file server. Will have tooling to snapshot automatically to produce frozen production-ready suite of packages. WIP https://github.com/ropenscilabs/icepalace 

#### Questions:
* GB: Where do the build dependencies come from? Prefers current universe, then falls back to base R defaults (i.e. CRAN).
* GB: does build system respect package system dependencies? Not currently: if a package is re-built, its reverse dependencies are not automatically re-built. But a regular chron job will re-check all packages, or can manually retrigger complete re-build. If you want something more strict, you could set up your own additional check process.

### R Repos for Regulatory Use Wishlist (Doug Kelkhoff)

Background: analyst/statistician in late-stage clinical trials at Roche. Long time contributor to R validation hub. 

Recent discussion about what the ideal repository for regulatory use might look like: https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/blob/main/Documents/RValHub-Wishlist.md 

Major points:

* Internal consistency. Reproducible revdeps (e.g. justify to FDA that software was checked in a specific way).
* Map tests back to specific function components.
* Filtering flags, e.g. select packages with active maintainer, or some threshold of test coverage. Then could have filtered of repo “quality” packages.

The next meeting of the working group will be Monday July 11, 2022 at 8AM pacific Time.
