## Repositories WG Minutes 2022-04-04

Minutes by Joseph Rickert 

### Attendees

* James Black - Roche
* Gábor Csardi
* Will Landau - Lilly
* Michael Lawrence - Roche 
* Martin Maechler - R Foundation
* Joseph B Rickert - RStudio
* Ben Ubah
* Hadley Wickham

Joseph began the meeting by welcoming Martin and providing a brief overview of the working group's activities. He emphasized that two goals of the WG are:

1. to establish a working relationship with the CRAN maintainers in order to facilitate communication between CRAN and the general R community and 
2. to involve CRAN in discussions of repository related activities that various actors in the R community would like to undertake. 

Projects might include, for example:

* Configuring R-Hub so that it would run the exact checks employed by CRAN on similarly configured systems
* Standing up specialized repositories that would run in parallel with CRAN but might be integrated with CRAN in a manner similar to Bioconductor
* Developing best practices for constructing technical sound repositories that could facilitate various kinds of developer needs.

Martin mentioned that a meeting with CRAN and some R Foundation members, which took place in the October/November time frame, revealed a willingness to engage more with the WG and the R community in general. He noted that the CRAN maintainers frequently engage directly with developers on the [R-package-devel](https://stat.ethz.ch/mailman/listinfo/r-package-devel) mailing list, but that since the meeting described above the CRAN team has been extremely busy managing the migration to the new Windows tools, and working on the new R 4.2 release.

Martin also mentioned that the CRAN team would like the WG and the community to talk to them and not just talk about them. Michael replied that we are sensitive to this, and that we should think of this present meeting as part of an effort to figure out how we can best begin a dialog with CRAN.

Regarding the matter of synchronizing R-Hub with CRAN, Martin briefly described how this would be difficult to achieve operationally. Apparently, CRAN frequently runs experiments based on the daily [R-devel](https://stat.ethz.ch/R/daily/) build that may involve running different tests on different platforms (macOS, Windows etc.) 

During this discussion it was mentioned that, over the years, there have been several attempts to write code that would discover the exact configuration of CRAN test systems. Martin suggested that this sort of probing could introduce security problems.

James briefly described an internal Roche effort to stand up a specialized repository that would facilitate their efforts to validate the two hundred or so R packages required for an FDA submission. Hadley mentioned an internal RStudio effort that has advanced system checking features that is capable of automatically checking thousands of package in a couple of hours.

Martin replied that he thought that these kinds of efforts could be helpful in relieving the burden on CRAN, and in general, he believed that the CRAN maintainers would look favorably on specialized repositories that did even more checking than CRAN.

### Next steps

The group agreed that having a direct, on-line discussion would be the best way to engage with CRAN. The next step will be to send out a doodle poll to setup a meeting between WG members and CRAN in the May/June time frame. (We will delay a couple of week before doing this to give CRAN some time to finish up with R 4.2 work.) In the meantime, the WG should begin working on a discussion document in order to prepare for the meeting. (Anyone who would like to take the lead on this, please start a new document in the WG GitHub repo.)
