### R Repository WG minutes 2022-10-03

Minutes by Joseph Rickert

### Attendees

* Gabriel Becker
* Tyler Finethy
* Michael Lawrence
* Martin Mächler
* Lluís Revilla
* Joseph Rickert

Those present agreed that the pull request:Upload CRAN scripts for Linux #18 should be closed because the scripts are already available at https://github.com/r-devel/r-dev-web where they are kept up to date.

The next step for the WG is to find multiple examples of packages that fail CRAN checks but do not fail local checks or checks on R-Hub. This is expressed in [Issue #20](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/issues/20) *Test cases for recreation of difficult CRAN check failures*.

We hope that people participating in, or aware of, this working group will be able to supply a sufficient number of test cases. If not the WG will reach out to the larger R Community via social media.

The overall idea is that with a sufficient number of varied examples of packages passing local checks but failing CRAN checks, we should be able to come to a better understanding of the CRAN test environment by analyzing the results of CRAN scripts on different local environments. Can we recreate environments where packages known to fail CRAN checks also fail in these environments?

Martin noted that the efforts of this working group were briefly discussed at a recent meeting of R Core in Vienna.

The WG members present also noted that if we could sufficiently understand the CRAN environment we may be able to help decrease the workload on CRAN.


The next meeting of the working group will be at 8AM Pacific Time on Monday, November 7, 2022.
