### Minutes Repositories WG
November 3, 2023
Recorded by Joseph Rickert

#### Attendees

* Andrew Borgman - Biogen
* Wilmar Igl - ICON plc
* Jeroen Ooms - rOpenSci
* Lluís Revilla
* Joseph Rickert - ProCogia

The meeting was recorded and the [video](https://zoom.us/rec/share/8wwjdo9TDo5Oasf6u_IhIgNb7UB0hj7C12HBuKLZ1EasxJxNNk1EykUGNLZkOEaC.0KpxWn_4nla4F20E?startTime=1699286616000) is available.

* The agenda for the meeting was to explore the possibilities for collaboration with the [Regulatory R Package Repositories WG](https://github.com/pharmaR/regulatory-r-repo-wg) (RRPR) which is a subgroup of the R Validation Hub WG.
* Wilmar and Andrew represented RRPR.
* Andrew stated that the goal of RRPR is to create a single source of truth for trusted open source packages within the pharmaceutical industry.
* JBR noted that rOpenSci's R-universe project is likely to be very relevant to RRPR and invited Jeroen to give an overview of the project.
* Jeroen's presentation begins at approximately 00:11:12 into the meeting. 
* For the remainder of the meeting Jeroen described features of the R-universe and answered questions. All of this is captured in the video.
* Of particular interest were Jeroen's comments on how the capabilities which already exist in the R-universe to report quality metrics for packages could be extended to include R Validation Hub risk metrics.
* Andrew and Wilmar stated that their next steps will be to report back to the full RRPR WG.
* The meeting ended with Jeroen offering to assist with the creation of an RRPR R-Universe repository if RRPR would like some help.

The next meeting of the R Repositories WG will be held at 8AM Pacific Time on Monday, December 4, 2023.

