### Minutes: R Repositories WG
July 10, 2023
Minutes compiled by Joseph Rickert and Tyler Finethy

### Attendees

* Tyler Finethy
* Jeroen Ooms
* Joseph Rickert

### CRAN Support

* Planning continues to have Jeroen visit Kurt Hornik to investigate implementing container technology for CRAN test systems
* Jeroen expects that he can settle the timing for the visit when he attends the R Foundation sprint on September 1st.
* The R Consortium is well-disposed towards awarding a grant to finance this work.

### R Package Binary Builder Images:

The Posit Package Manager team is now building R packages for Windows, macOS (cross-built on Linux), and several native Linux distributions in containers using Kubernetes. Tyler will be working on open-sourcing these images with some proofs-of-concept to have them be a starting point with CRAN's initiative to build binaries using containers. The goal will be to get these open-sourced before the Sept. meeting, and Jeroen mentioned wanting early access to experiment with cross-builds for R-Universe.


### R Advisory Database: 

While this might not be in scope for the Repositories WG we discussed it anyway. Similar to the PyPA (https://github.com/pypa/advisory-database), R should have a public advisory database so the community can submit changes in the case of a vulnerability or malicious package being published. We'll create database on the R Consortium GitHub site  and see what the level of interest is. Tyler will be responsible for creating the initial content. See the [OSV](https://osv.dev/
) site for more information.

There is now an [R Advisory Database](https://github.com/RConsortium/R-Advisory-Database) repository on GitHub. This may become the motivation for a new R Consortium Working Group.

### CRAN Maintained Packages

Joseph noted that the group should discuss the [CRAN Maintained Packages](https://llrs.dev/post/2023/05/03/cran-maintained-packages/) post by Lluís Revilla Sancho in a future meeting


The next meeting of working group will be held at 9AM PST on Monday August 7, 2023
