Repositories WG Meeting 2023-05-01

Minutes by Joseph B Rickert

**Attendees**

* Tyler Finethy
* Will Landau
* Michael Lawrence
* Lluís Revilla
* Joseph Rickert
* Paul Schuette
* Hadley Wickham

### Repository for Pharma Submissions

* JBR noted that in in the April meeting, Doug Kelkhoff made it clear that the R Validation Hub was stepping back a little from the commitment to stand up a "CRAN like" repository which pharma companies would be able to use to make R-based submissions to the FDA. 

* WG members present agreed that the Repositories should wait to see what the Validation Hub working group decides before taking up the issue again.

### CRAN Cooperation

* JBR noted that efforts to establish a third meeting with CRAN have stalled. Difficulties scheduling a meeting over three continents along with academic teaching schedules and the severely limited availability of CRAN members make it unlikely that a virtual meeting will happen in the near future.

* All agreed that a small in-person meeting was likely to be more successful.

* Recalling that Kurt had previously asked for help integrating container technology into his CRAN test systems and that Jeroem Ooms had offered to help, the WG agreed that arranging for a short trip for Jeroem to visit Kurt in Vienna would be a productive, practical step towards cooperation.

* JBR stated that the R Consortium Board of directors had already expressed an interest in helping CRAN that the RC could finance the trip.

* HW checked that Jeroen will be willing to visit Kurt.

**Action Item: ** JBR will write to Kurt copying both ML and Martin Mächler to arrange for an invitation for Jeroen.

### The R Project Sprint 2023

* It was noted that the [R Project Sprint 2023](https://contributor.r-project.org/r-project-sprint-2023/) (August 30 - September 1, 2023) might present another possibility for cooperation.

* After the meeting, JBR realized that the R Consortium RUGS program is in the process of awarding a $7,000 grant to the Sprint program for additional travel scholarships.

### Help with Key Packages Being Maintained by CRAN

* CRAN is [looking for help](https://mastodon.social/@henrikbengtsson/110186925898457474) maintaining [`XML`](https://cran.r-project.org/package=XML) and [`RCurl`](https://cran.r-project.org/package=RCurl).

* The problem is that both packages are obsolete and have been abandoned by their authors, yet because between them they have over 500 reverse dependencies, deprecating them without a transition plan would cause considerable pain in the R Community.

* This is an ideal situation for the R Community to step in an help CRAN. However, maintaining these packages, "fixing" them, or even developing a transition plan will require relatively sophisticated R package programming skills.

* HW has offered to see if he can find someone who can help.

* LR offered to present a detailed analysis of the dependencies and potential replacement packages at our next meeting/month. See [Issue #26](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/issues/26) on the Repositories WG repo.

**Action Item:** LR will present his analysis at the next meeting.





