### Minutes Repositories WG
December 4, 2023
Recorded by Joseph Rickert

#### Attendees

* Andrew Borgman - Biogen
* Tyler Finethy - Posit
* Michael Lawrence - Genentech
* Wilmar Igl - ICON plc
* Jeroen Ooms - rOpenSci
* Joseph Rickert - ProCogia

### CRAN Cooperation

* Jeroen reported that Kurt Hornik of CRAN recently contacted him about visiting Kurt in Vienna to discuss setting up containers. Kurt suggested that April might be a good time.
* When the trip schedule firms up Jeroen will prepare by speaking with Gábor Csárdi (R-Hub) and others about making preparations. It would be nice to agree on standards for containers for CRAN, R-Hub and GitHub Actions.
* Among the many things to be determined would be how to manage the containers.
* It was also suggested that containers might make it easier for R Core to test against CRAN.

### Cross Compilation

The WG also discussed taking on the task of facilitating communication among groups interested in cross compiling R, noting that Tyler is working on cross compiling with MacOS and that Jeroen and R-Universe are working on crossing with WebAssembly technology.

### Repository Governance

* JBR stated that he believe that the WG should take the lead on providing guidance about the governance of open source repositories. 
* Wilmar Igl suggested that the work being done by the [Methodology Working Party of the European Medicines Agency](https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/committees/working-parties-other-groups/chmp/methodology-working-party) may be relevant. For background, see the [blog post](https://wilmarigl.de/?p=875) Wilmar recently wrote commenting on the Methodology Working Party's [3-Year Work Plan](https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/work-programme/draft-revised-consolidated-3-year-work-plan-methodology-working-party-mwp_en.pdf).
* Wilmar also noted that the MWP may add efforts to support open-source software development by providing regulatory guidelines. e.g. for regulatory submission using R, or channels of communication with key opinion leaders and relevant working groups such as the the [ASA BIOP SWE OpenStatsWare WG](https://github.com/RConsortium/asa-biop-swe-wg).

### Regulatory R Package Repository

* Andrew Borgman reported that the Regulatory R Package Repository work stream from the R Validation Hub Working group is considering basing the repository on the R-Universe infrastructure. He noted that one issue is whether a package has to be backed by a GitHub repo. This would be problematic for some older CRAN package that do not have repos. Jeroen replied that the R-Universe has work arounds for this sort of problem, including setting up a repository to "mirror" the package code.
* JBR also reported that the Risk Assessment work stream of the R Validation Hub WG has settled on setting up a cloud based Posit Connect instance to provide community access to the Risk Assessment Shiny Application. JBR is working to secure funding for this from the R Consortium. In the meantime, engineers from ProCogia are making it possible to move the project forward by setting up a Connect instance on a ProCogia property.




### R Advisory DataBase

Tyler asked if the WG would be interested in supporting the [R Advisory Database](https://github.com/rconsortium/r-advisory-database). The WG will take up this issue at the next meeting in February where Tyler will present the database, the goals of the project, and the work that has been done so far.

The next meeting of the working group will be at 8AM Pacific Time on Monday February 5, 2024.
