### Minutes Repositories WG
June 3, 2024
Recorded by Joseph Rickert

#### Attendees


* Benjamin Altman - Wirtshatfs Universitët
* Jasmine Daly - Daly Analytics
* Gwynn Gebeyehu - Perception Analytics
* Wilmar Igl - Icon
* Will Landau - Lilly
* Michael Lawrence - Genentech
* Jeroen Ooms - rOpenSci
* Joseph Rickert - ProCogia
* Paul Schuette - FDA
* Heather Turner - R Foundation

*Unfortunately, there was a recording problem and no video is available.*

## CRAN Cookbook

Jasmine Daly presented the goals of the *CRAN Cookbook* project, a document that is being developed as part of the project *Improving the Skills of R Package Maintainers* which was recently funded by the R Consortium RUGS program.

* During the discussion it was noted that the document should address both the technical and social issues confronting package developers and maintainers.
* The project team intends to survey the R Community about their interactions with CRAN.
  *  Suggest questions to be included in the survey are being collected [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19GZ9UUDCbz9lLXhM8xulhyFXfn9ApCY0F5TR4E-74Ic/edit)
* The Proposal for Improving the Skills of R Package Maintainers is available in the Documents folder of this repository.

## CRAN Collaboration

* Jeroen Ooms expects to continue discussions with Kurt Hornik at useR!

## R Validation Hub 

Wilmar Igl provide a brief update of the work being done in the repositories wokstream of the R Validation Hub.

* You can follow this work on the [workstream's repository](https://pharmar.github.io/regulatory-r-repo-wg/)
* The upcoming talk at useR!, [Supporting Companies With Validation of R Packages - Yann Féat, mainanalytics GmbH & Coline Zeballos, R Validation Hub](https://userconf2024.sched.com/event/1dyXW/supporting-companies-with-validation-of-r-packages-yann-feat-mainanalytics-gmbh-coline-zeballos-r-validation-hub?iframe=yes&w=100%&sidebar=yes&bg=no), will include a demo that shows:

  * The Screening algorithm
  * Storing packages with version control
  * Storing source code and binaries with version control
  * Creating a reference inference which will most likely be based on docker technology
  
## The Multiverse

Will Landau reported that the [R-multiverse](https://r-multiverse.org/) project recently received funding from the R Consortium's ISC Committee.

## Next Meeting 

The next meeting of the working group will be at 8AM Pacific Time on Monday, July 1, 2024.
