### Minutes Repositories WG
August 5, 2024
Recorded by Joseph Rickert

#### Attendees


* Tyler Finethy
* Wilmar Igl - Icon
* Will Landau - Lilly
* Michael Lawrence - Genentech
* Jeroen Ooms - rOpenSci
* Joseph Rickert - R Consortium
* Lluís Revilla
* Paul Schuette - FDA

The meeting was recorded and the [video](https://zoom.us/rec/share/YXSF_Jbakuj7VyJc1Wpc503F9192b1YS2q1jimc_dgq-1JVMlgJ6VH12k8NCoGDe.-e9czFrE1R0Kqulv?startTime=1722870161000) is available.

### Update on R-Multiverse Project

Will Landau described the state of the [R-Multiverse](https://github.com/r-multiverse/) project (Previously called R-Releases) and its goals.
* The project recently received an R Consortium grant

* Goals
  * Provide an open and transparent general purpose repository for publishing packages not unlike CRAN or Bioconductor
  * Provide a top notch maintainer experience for package developers
  * Put control in the hands of developers
  * Have everything about about production automated
  * Meet or exceed the current user experience for downloading packages
* automated package registration 
   * checks for repo name, consistency with CRAN
   * Package included in Packages JSON universe
* Two universe solution
* Staging Universe
  * Staging checks for versioning 
  * versioning must be monotonically increasing
  * packages in Staging checked against other packages in Staging
* Production Universe
  * Production will be a quarterly snapshot of Staging. Look [here](https://github.com/r-multiverse/help/issues/78) for some details
  
Following Will's presentation there was a productive discussion of about desired features, desired behavior under various package and dependency failures and other design details. 

* In response to a question about the relationship between the Multiverse and CRAN, the sentiment of the group was that there would be no need to choose between the Multiverse and CRAN, packages could exist in both repositories and enjoy the benefits each offer. 
* The maintainers experience of the Multiverse is expected to be so automated that it will be easy to for developers to support packages in both the Multiverse and CRAN.
* Will also expects that the Multiverse will be particularly useful to package development communities such as RUST and CRAN that have ongoing needs to work with complex tool chains and large packages.
* Preliminary discussions with Rust developers indicated that their community would adopt the Multiverse.
* Joe Rickert asked the group to consider how the R Consortium could help promote Multiverse development with both communication and funding.


### UseR! 2024 
Joe Rickert summarized his conversation with Kurt Hornik in which Kurt

* expressed his thanks for financing the Jeroen's recent visit
* was very keen on continuing the collaboration
* noted the need to fund a new server to test in a Windows ARM environment
* mentioned that he would like to discuss an R-Hub I like system with Gabór Csárdi
* was interested in discussing ideas about how CRAN might develop in the future

### R-Validation Hub

Wilmar provided a brief update on the work of the Repositories workstream of the R validation Hub

### Next Steps

Joe Rickert asked people about what tasks the Repositories working group should undertake during the next few months. Will noted that continuing discussions with the R Validation Hub about what should be included in the snapshot model would be very helpful.


### Next Meeting

The next meeting of the R Repositories working group will be at 8AM Pacific time on Monday, September 9, 2024.

