### Minutes Repositories WG
May 6, 2024
Recorded by Joseph Rickert

#### Attendees

* Aaron Clark - Arcus
* Gábor Csárdi - Posit
* Tyler Finethy - Posit
* Doug Kelkhoff - Roche
* Michael Lawrence - Genentech
* Jeroen Ooms - rOpenSci
* Lluís Revilla
* Joseph Rickert - ProCogia


The meeting was recorded and the [video](https://zoom.us/rec/share/Yo87MzPyMHsloxDxpLPw0Nbk_G_CBHCqFZJkIziR3xLg-k-IfcAhlOGX9DrzlH6n.y9ao04K4yrInWbsk?startTime=1715007797000) is available.


## R-hub v2

Gábor Csárdi presented  [R-hub v2](https://r-hub.github.io/rhub/index.html)

* R-hub 2 is operational
* the goals of the project are:
 * to be an on demand R package check service for R package developers
 * to reproduce CRAN checks
 * Low cost operation
 * to be an open system allowing reuse of every part
* Common use case: Packages fail on CRAN. Package developers find a appropriate test environment on R-hub 2 to reproduce the errors.
* There are [containers](https://r-hub.github.io/containers/) matching CRAN test environments.
* Keeping the containers is challenging because of limited information from CRAN.
* The [rhub v2.0.0](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rhub) package on CRAN has the same name as was used in the original R-Hub system, but it has been completely rewritten. 
* To get the full benefit of r-hub2, the package you are testing should be set up in a GitHub repository.
* There is no webserver, so there is no cost.


### Key GitHub repositories for r-hub2

R-hub containers and VMs are set up to use these repositories:

* CRAN-like R package repositories for R-hub that only contains metadata:
https://github.com/r-hub/repos
 * the actual package files as accessed through DownloadURL
* Prescribed packages are built daily and published as GitHub Releases in https://github.com/cran
* A custom installer that supports DownloadURL: https://github.com/r-lib/pak

### Plans

* Publish check results at GitHub Pages. Then no GitHub account will be needed.
* More containers
* Update containers on a schedule
* Consolidate R-hub actions with r-lib actions Https://github.com/r-lib/actions
* Build more package binaries
* More tooling for package repositories at GitHub Releases?

### Q&A and Discussion

* Q&A begins at **24:50** into the video.
* Differences between R-hub and R-universe
* Checking reverse dependencies
* Usefulness for regulated industries

## Collaboration with CRAN

On behalf of the working group, Jeroen Ooms visited with Kurt Hornik and Uwe Ligges of CRAN.

* Jeroen's brief report of the trip begins at **43:30** into the video 
* They spent time hands-on with debugging and discussing possible collaborations between CRAN and r-universe and R-hub.
* They are open to using some of R-universe tools but their pipelines are very different
* Unlike R-universe or R-Hub where checks are run with GItHub actions, CRAN works with file system queues.
* CRAN would like to experiment with incoming MacOS ARM packages.
* It is clear that there are common goals
* There was agreement that both CRAN and R Core are in need of new participants and new tools.
* At **50:23** into the video Jeroen briefly discusses work Kurt is doing with the maketools package for Debian packages.
* Also, independent of Jeroen's trip Lluís Revilla has begun collaborating with Kurt about BioConductor manual pages. See( https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/issues/)

## Next Steps

* The working group will use the issues in our GitHub repo to continue this discussion: https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/issues/
* Doug will write up his reflections on how the issues raised in this meeting relate to the repositories workstream of the R Validation Hub WG.
* Jeroen will write up a brief trip report.
* Joe will work with R Consortium Marketing to publicize R-hub-2

The next meeting of the working group will be at 8AM on Monday June 3, 2024

