### R Repository WG minutes 2022-09-19

Minutes by Joseph Rickert

### Attendees

* Gabriel Becker
* Tyler Finethy
* Will Landau
* Jeroen Ooms
* Lluís Revilla
* Joseph Rickert
* Sebastien Rochette
* Paul Schuette
* Ben Ubah
* Hadley Wickham

JBR opened the meeting by asking how we should reply to CRAN. The discussion began by considering various ways to analyze the information in the responses provide by Kurt, Simon, and Tomas. Suggestions included:

* Going through the files to look for environmental variables: e.g. see https://svn.r-project.org/R-dev-web/trunk/CRAN/QA/Kurt/.R/check.Renviron
* Running the scripts provided by Kurt
* Going through the directories mentioned my Simon and Tomas and looking for _R_Check

It was noted that whatever is found would have to be crossed checked with the defaults.

Some preliminary observations from the materials indicate:

* The periodic (daily?) CRAN consistency enforcing checks (e.g. [checks for package `switchr`](https://cran.r-project.org/web/checks/check_results_switchr.html)) are most likely a subset of the [incoming checks](https://svn.r-project.org/R-dev-web/trunk/CRAN/QA/Kurt/lib/R/Scripts/check_CRAN_incoming.R) run on new package submissions.
* Incoming checks don't run on all of the operating systems.
* Tomas apparently runs checks when there are changes to R or changes to R tools. These are not CRAN checks per se, however, failing them could result in package removal
* The CRAN team most likely divides up their work by operating systems: Simon checks packages on Macs, Uwe on Windows and Kurt on the various Linux platforms. BDR runs other special checks.

The group agreed that the best way to proceed would be to develop an understanding of what the CRAN checks are, and which code runs what checks. Once, we have this we could ask CRAN to comment on whether we have thing right, and then we could begin looking for the environment variables.

GB observed that even knowing what scripts are run and how they work would still not be enough to fully understand the CRAN check environment. We would have to also understand how and when they are invoked.

Goals for the project are:

1. To reflect back to CRAN our understanding of how CRAN works and where the environment variables are set, and identify the code that runs them. HW observed that this would be a real contribution.
2. Figure out how we would test that we have replicated the CRAN environment.

The group noted that each member of the CRAN team (4 or 5 people) performs a tremendous amount work checking packages, perhaps working more than four hours a day, day-in and day-out with only a couple of breaks throughout the year. 

There was a brief discussion about whether the WG and the R Community could take some of the burden from the CRAN team. For example, could we find a way of limiting the number of packages submitted to CRAN by discouraging low quality or frivolous packages? The answer is likely no: the all-inclusive CRAN repository is generally perceived to be essential to how R works. A more feasible proposal might be to find a way to finance full-time dev-ops professionals to report to the CRAN team.

### Action Items 

* JBR will reach out to Michael Lawrence and Heather about the status of the liaison person CRAN was talking about hiring.
* HW will speak with Gabor about what we have discussed
* TF will set up a mirror for those SVN resources
* The WG will begin analyzing the CRAN files and will communicate through issues on the repo.

The next meeting of the working group will be on Monday, October 3, 2022 at 8AM Pacific Time.




