\input texinfo
@c %**start of header
@setfilename external_libs.info
@settitle External Libraries for CRAN packages
@documentlanguage en

@titlepage
@title External Libraries for CRAN packages
@author CRAN Repository Maintainers
@end titlepage

CRAN packages may wish to link to external libraries (or rarely, invoke
other software) that needs to be installed on the CRAN check machines
(which the CRAN policy prefers to including in the package).  Requests
to add software should be sent to @code{CRAN@@R-project.org} and where
relevant copied to those responsible for the binary packages (see the
CRAN policy).

Java SDKs (currently OpenJDK of various versions including 11 and 17)
are installed on all the CRAN platforms, as are @command{JAGS} and
@command{ghostscript}.  Most but not all systems have MPI support
installed.

Email addresses for those named are of the form
@samp{@var{First.Lastname}@@R-project.org}.


@c @node Linux, macOS
@unnumbered Linux

CRAN checks are done on several Debian (including incoming checks) and
Fedora machines.  Software will only be installed on the Debian machines
that is available from Debian repositories for `testing'.
The @code{rcheckserver} meta-package available from the AASC repository
at @uref{https://statmath.wu.ac.at/AASC/debian} provides all system
dependencies used for the Debian checks.

For Fedora, requests to add RPMs from official repositories are
preferred, but at our discretion software may be installed from
elsewhere (as has been done for @command{pandoc}) or compiled from
source (as may be needed for the fedora-clang checks).  No information
is publicly available on what RPMs are already installed as it differs
by machine.

Be aware that adding software to the Linux machines needs the time of
busy sysadmins, not just the CRAN team.

@c @node macOS, Windows, Linux
@unnumbered macOS

External libraries are made for both macOS architectures @emph{via}
Simon Urbanek's `recipes' system at
@uref{https://github.com/R-macos/recipes}.  Tested updates to these
recipes or new recipes should be requested at GitHub or emailed to him,
failing which he can be asked to help to prepare a recipe.

An idea of what external libraries are currently available can be found
at
@uref{https://mac.r-project.org/bin/darwin17/x86_64/}
and
@uref{https://mac.r-project.org/bin/darwin20/arm64/}
with installation instructions at
@uref{https://mac.r-project.org/bin/}.

Requests to add or update other software (which in the past have
included @command{cmake} and @command{pandoc}) should be sent to the
maintainer, Simon Urbanek, with as much detail as possible.

There is no MPI support.  Although OpenMPI can be installed, only dynamic
linking works and so cannot be used portably.

JAGS may or may not be available.  There is an `official' release for
both architectures at
@uref{https://sourceforge.net/projects/mcmc-jags/files/JAGS/4.x/}.

@c @node Windows,  , macOS
@unnumbered Windows

The build system for Windows changed with 4.2.0 and only that
is considered here (and only 64-bit Windows is now supported).

Building of external libraries is done using MXE
(@uref{https://mxe.cc/}).  That has an extensive set of packages
(@uref{https://github.com/mxe/mxe/blob/master/src}), and users can
contribute others (@uref{https://mxe.cc/#creating-packages}).  For
external libraries not already available, the best approach is to
contribute to the MXE library. For advice, consult Tomas Kalibera.

Common build tools are installed using Msys2 (@uref{https://www.msys2.org/}).

GDAL executables are currently available via a
@c From https://svn.r-project.org/R-dev-web/trunk/WindowsBuilds/winutf8/ucrt3/r_packages/setup_checks.ps1
QGIS installation
(@uref{https://qgis.org/downloads/QGIS-OSGeo4W-3.22.0-4.msi}), but this
may change in future.

Requests to add or update other software should be sent to the
maintainer, Uwe Ligges, with as much detail as possible.

@bye
